As I mentioned many times in this video we're going to take a look at using a outside third party testing
library to run the test inside of our project.
We're going to be taking a look at MOCA J.S. Moka.
James is one of the most popular by far testing frameworks out there.
You're going to see a tremendous number of different projects using it.
If you want to you can take a look at the MOCA Jazz dot org documentation so you can come here.
Go on down.
You can see a lot of different features listed inside of here.
Now as I mentioned back a little bit ago when I said that we're going to write our own testing framework
that works like 80 percent of time MOCA is incredibly full featured and it's got a ton of different
stuff packed into it.
But at the end the day in reality to be honest with you unless you're like a super advanced tester you're
not really going to use the vast majority of this stuff.
Instead you're going to use kind of a very small subset so in this video we're going to install Moka
onto our machine.
We're then going to use it to run our test file.
And here's the big surprise.
Here's the real fun surprise.
We're going to run the same test file that we have been working on so far with MOCA and it's going to
work perfectly with MOCA after we change just two words.
So in other words the entire structure everything I've shown you so far inside of here is just about
perfect to work with MOCA.
But we did it from scratch using like nothing but that function right there.
So again the whole point here is really to just show you you don't need a fancy setup to do any kind
of testing.
You can throw this stuff together yourself and have some really great setup that works just for your
custom project and you will know exactly how it behaves.
OK.
So anyways let's get to it.
The first thing we're going to do is install Moka onto our local machine and we're going to install
MOCA globally.
You can install MOCA globally onto your machine by running npm install dash G MOCA.
Now when you run this command if you are on a Mac OS if you run the command and you see something it
says e access perm or something like that or air permissions or anything around that no problem.
I want you to do a Google sort search for NPM global install permission denied.
And one of the first results you will see is docs NPM J dot com.
So again if you're on NPM or C if you're on Mac OS and you see an error message like EA Access or something
like that you can go through this series of steps and it should fix up the air for you if you go through
the steps and it still doesn't work the other way that you can get access to Moka is by running NPCs
Moka as well.
This is going to run Moka directly without first installing it onto your machine.
OK.
Anyways I can go ahead and install it globally onto my machine so it'll take just a second here.
There we go.
So now I should be able to do a mocha dash B whoops version.
There we go the mocha is a command line tool that we can use to execute all the different tests inside
of our project to run the thing we would normally do.
Mochae And then the name of our test file.
So mocha index dot test dot Jesus.
But before we do we have to massage the code inside of our index to test out has filed just a little
bit.
Remember I told you we really only have to change two words to make our test work perfectly with mocha
gonna flip back over there and to get our test file up and running in 100 percent compliance with mocha.
Here's what we're going to do.
We're gonna first delete the test function.
We can technically leave it here if you want it just like commented out or heck you don't even have
to communist out to be honest if you don't want to.
I'm going to remove it just to prove that you know we don't need it once we're using Boca.
And then here's the two words we're going to change.
Instead of test right here we're going to say it and then a test right here.
We're gonna say it and that's all we have to do.
Our file is now 100 percent compliant to be used with mocha.
Now we can go back over to our command line.
We can run it mocha index test dot J.S. and as soon as we do we're going to get a really big test report
something like this right here.
So this is the reporter coming from mocha a reporter something that's gonna take all the results of
all the different tests and printed up in a nice little report for you to see at your terminal so we'll
see some output very similar to what we've just had a moment ago when we were running our tester so
we can see these descriptions of the different tests we can see that we have one test passing of one
failing we can see that we tried to run the map function set of tests and an error occurred during that.
Just so you know I still have an error inside of my implementation I still have the seven right there.
If you change that back to six like so then save the file and go back over to a terminal we can run
that again and we'll see the test report is a lot happier than we had previously OK.
So again the whole point here and I apologize for repeating this a billion times you don't have to use
Moka.
You don't have to use just if you've heard just you don't have to use Jasmine you don't have to use
karma all these other testing frameworks you don't really have to use you can put together something
on your own that's going to work just as well and work in like 80 percent of all cases that really is
all we're going to discuss around Moka for right now what we're going to take a quick pause we're going
to work on taking a previous project in the next video that we built earlier on INSIDE THIS COURSE AND
WE'RE GOING TO WRITE SOME TESTS around it using Moka and then after that we're going to start to rip
MOCA out and we're going to write our own custom testing framework that's going to work.
Like I said just about everywhere that MOCA is as well so great pause and we'll start testing that thing
in the next video.